NOVEMBER 10th.
THE DEATH TOLL SOARS IN TH
PHILIPPINES FOLLOWING TH
MASSIVE TYPHOON.
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT, WE'L
TAKE TO YOU A COUNTRY IN EUROP
WHEREVER EVERYONE GETS A
PENSION.
WHAT MAKES IT SUCCESSFUL IS YO
BASICALLY FORCE PEOPLE TO SAVE
FOR THEIR OLD AGE.
>> AND WHAT THE US CAN DO TO
HELP RETIREES.
>> IT IS MUCH MORE EFFICIENT FOR
PEOPLE TO HAVE GUARANTEED INCOME
UNTIL THEY DIE RATHER THAN A BIG
PILE OF MONEY.
>> NEXT ON PBS "NEWS HOU
WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH STUDIOS IN NE
YORK
>> GOOD EVENING.
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US
AUTHORITIES NOW BELIEVE AT LEAST
10,000 PEOPLE WERE KILL DURING
THAT EXTRAORDINARILY POWERFU
TYPHOON FRIDAY
THE DEVASTATED CITIES, TOWNS AND
FISHING VILLAGES ON THE ISLAND
THAT MAKE UP THE CENTRAL
PHILIPPINES.
EVEN THOUGH TYPHOON HAIYAN PACKE
WINDS OF 200 MILES AN HOUR, MOST
OF THE DAMAGE WAS FROM THE STORM
SURGE THAT REACHED AS HIGH AS 13
FEET
OFFICIALS SAY THE STORM WAS SO
STRONG THAT IT DESTROYED ABOUT
THREE QUARTERS OF THE BUILDING
IN ITS PATH.
THE PRESIDENT THERE FLEW T
TACLOBAN, A CITY OF MORE THA
200,000 PEOPLE THAT WAS ONE OF
THE HARDEST HIT AREAS.
THE OFFICIALS ARE HERE TO ENSURE
THAT HELP IS GIVEN TO YOU TH
FASTEST WAY POSSIBLE AND THING
ARE RESTORED TO THE NATURA
ORDER.
>> U.S. DEFENSE SECRETARY CHUC
HAGEL ORDERED THE PACIFI
COMMAND TO HELP WITH SEARCH AN
RESCUE OPERATIONS AND TO AIR
LIFT EMERGENCY SUPPLIES TO THE
STRICKEN REGION.
EARLY MORNING, MARATHO
NEGOTIATIONS IN GENEVA
SWITZERLAND EVERYBODIED WITHOU
AN INTERIM AGREEMENT TO FREEZE
IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM
THE TALKS WILL RESUME NOVEMBER
20th
IRANIAN PRESIDENT HAAS ROUHANI
TOLD MEMBERS OF HIS PARLIAMENT
THAT HIS NATION WILL FORGE HEA
WITH THE NUCLEAR PROGRAM
HIS COMMENTS WERE VIEWED AS
GESTURE TO HARD LINERS
UNCOMFORTABLE WITH THE OVERTURES
TO THE WEST.
THE SECRETARY OF STATE JOH
KERRY PARTICIPATED IN THE GENEVA
TALKS WITH HIS COUNTERPARTS.
TODAY KERRY DEFENDED THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION'S WILLINGNESS T
NEGOTIATE A DEAL THAT COUL
RESULT IN THE LIFTING OF SOME OF
THE ECONOMIC SANCTIONS AGAINST
IRAN
>> WE ARE NOT BLIND AND I DON'
THINK WE'RE STUPID
I THINK WE HAVE A PRETTY STRON
SENSE OF HOW TO MEASURE WHETHE
OR NOT WE ARE ACTING IN TH
INTERESTS OF OUR COUNTRY AND O
THE GLOBE AND PARTICULARLY O
OUR ALLIES, LIKE ISRAEL AND GULF
STATES WILL.
>> BUT REPUBLICAN SENATO
LINDSEY GRAHAM SAID TODAY,
LIFTING THE SANCTIONS WOULD BE A
BIG MISTAKE.
>> WE BELIEVE THAT SANCTIONS AND
THE THREAT OF MILITARY FORCE I
THE ONLY THING THAT WILL BRING
THE IRANIANS TO THE TABLE.
IF WE BACK OFF NOW, I THINK THAT
IS EXACTLY THE WRONG SIGNAL.
>> FOLLOWING HIS LAND SLID
RE-ELECTION LAST TUESDAY, NE
JERSEY GOVERNOR CHRIS CHRISTIE
MADE THE ROUNDS OF THE SUNDA
MORNING TALK SHOWS AND URGED
FELLOW REPUBLICANS TO GO AFTER
TYPICALLY DEMOCRATIC LEANING
MINORITY VOTERS.
>> YOU GO AND YOU SHOW UP AN
YOU LISTEN AND YOU START TO MAKE
YOUR ARGUMENT ABOUT YOUR
POLICIES
I THINK THE RESULTS SHOW THA
WHAT WE NEED ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
TO LISTEN UP AND SHOW UP I
PLACE WHERE WE HAVEN'T GOTTEN
GREAT AMOUNT OF VOTE BEFORE.
>> CHRISTIE WON 21% OF THE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN VOTE AND
MAJORITY OF THE HIS SPANNI
VOTES.
NUMBERS THAT FAR EXCEED WHAT
REPUBLICANS HAVE DONE IN RECEN
ELECTIONS.
>>> THERE WAS STREET VIOLENCE IN
SAUDI ARABIA FOLLOWING A
WEEK-LONG CRACKDOWN ON
UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS
AUTHORITIES HAVE ARRESTE
THOUSANDS AND TWO PEOPLE WER
KILLED
THE SAUDI GOVERNMENT I
ATTEMPTED TO DRASTICALLY ALTER
ITS LABOR FORCE BY OUT MOSTL
AFRICAN LOW SKILLED WORKERS TO
CREATE JOBS FOR A GROWING SAUD
POPULATION
>> THERE IS WORD A MEMOI
WRITTEN BY THE TEENAGER HAS BEEN
BANNED FROM LIBRARIES AND TENS
OF THOUSANDS OF PAKISTAN
SCHOOLS.
AN EDUCATION OFFICIAL SAID THE
BOOK DID NOT SHOW ENOUGH RESPECT
FOR ISLAM.
HE CALLED THE 16-YEAR-OLD,
QUOTING NOW, A TOO
WESTERN POWERS
MEMBERS OF THE TALIBAN SHO
MALALA IN THE HEAD FOR
ADVOCATING FOR THE EDUCATION O
GIRL LAST YEAR
>> CHINA IS NOW THE WORLD'
SECOND LARGEST ECONOMY
WHAT HAPPENS THERE NATURALLY HAS
GREAT ILL REPLY INDICATIONS FO
THE REST OF THE WORLD.
WE WANT TO SPEND SOME TIME
TALKING ABOUT A VERY IMPORTANT
MEETING IN BEIJING
IT INVOLVES THE TOP LEADERS OF
THE RULING PARTY AND IS EXPECTED
TO PRODUCE MAJOR ECONOMI
REFORMS.
THIS IS THE DIRECTOR OF ASIA
STUDIES.
SO HOW IN THIS DAY AND AGE THE
ARE HAVING A CLOSED DOOR MEETING
ABOUT THEIR ECONOMIC POLIC
REFORMS, WHY IS IT S
CONSEQUENTIAL?
THIS IS A GATHERING OF THE TOP
LEADERSHIP OF THE COMMUNIS
PARTY ABOUT THE TOP NOT QUIT
400 MEMBERS OF THE CENTRAL
COMMITTEE AND THE ALTERNAT
MEMBERS.
AND THEY'RE GATHER ORDERING TH
LAY OUT THE TRAJECTORY O
ECONOMIC REFORM FOR THE NEXT
FIVE TO TEN YEARS.
SO IT IS HIGHLY CONSEQUENTIAL.
AND THEY'RE REALLY TALKING ABOUT
NOTHING LESS THAN REFORMING TH
FUNDAMENTAL UNDERPINNINGS OF THE
CHINESE ECONOMY.
SO WHETHER THEY'RE ABLE TO
ACCOMPLISH THAT, AT THIS MEETING
OVER THE NEXT FEW YEARS IS
REALLY GOING TO BE INCREDIBL
IMPORTANT FOR CHINA FOR FIVE T
TEN YEARS OUT.
>> SO HAS THE CHINESE MODE
SLOWED
ON THE ONE HAND, THEY'VE LIFTE
600 MILLION PEOPLE OUT O
POVERTY BY MANUFACTURING
EVERYTHING THE REST OF THE WORLD
USES
ARE THEY RUNNING OUT OF STEAM?
>> NOT ONLY IS THE ECONOMI
GROWTH DROPPING FROM 10 TO 9 T
8 AND NOW CLOSER TO 7%
GDP GROSS BUT THERE IS A SENSE
THEY HAVE TO UNDERTAKE SOM
FUNDAMENTAL TRANSFORMATION
WITHIN THE ECONOMY IF THEY'R
GOING ON SUSTAIN THEIR GROWT
MOVING FORWARD
HOW WILL YOU TRANSFORM CHINA
FROM BEING A MANUFACTURING
NATION TO AN INNOVATION NATION
REBALANCING THE ECONOMY, MOVIN
AWAY FROM INVESTMENT LED, EXPORT
LED GROWTH TO CONSUMPTION BASE
ECONOMY.
AND HOW ARE YOU GOING TO REDUC
THE ROLE OF VESTED INTERESTS
WITHIN THE CHINESE ECONOMY
THE ENTERPRISE THAT'S SUCK UP SO
MUCH OF THE BANK LENDING AND
RELY SUCH GREAT SUBSIDIES THAT
THEY'RE CRUSHING PRIVATE
ENTERPRISE
>> SO SO MANY PEOPLE DISPLACED
38 COMMITTING SUE SIDES IN
CERTAIN PARTS OF THE COUNTRY
WE'RE HEARING THERE ARE CERTAI
70s ARE ALMOST GHOST CITIES THAT
HAVE BEEN BUILT AND NOBODY I
LIVING IN THEM
AND WE SEE A REAL ESTATE BUBBL
EMERGING TOO
>> SO A BIG PART OF THE ECONOMIC
CHALLENGE AT THIS POINT IS THE
MISALLOCATION OF CAMDEN.
THE WAY THE CENTER AND LOCAL
GOVERNMENTS INTERACT
THE RELIANCE OF LOCA
GOVERNMENTS ON REAL ESTATE O
LAND SALES FOR 70 TO 90% OF TH
REVENUES
THAT'S WHY YOU HAVE THEM TAKIN
THE LAND FROM THE FARMER
ILLEGALLY AND YOU HAVE THA
SOCIAL UNREST.
SO ALL OF THESE SMALL AREAS OF
REFORM HAVE HUGE SOCIA
CONSEQUENCES
AND THESE ARE PRECISELY TH
KINDS OF ISSUES THAT THEY NEED
TO DEAL WITH
>> SO SOMETHING WE'LL WATCH FO
ON TUESDAY
THAT'S WHEN THEY RELEASE THE
POLICY
>> THEY'LL RELEASE ON IT TUESDAY
BUT I THINK IT IS IMPORTANT TO
BEAR IN MINE, THAT'S STAGE ONE
STAGE TWO IS RELEASING THE
POLICY
STAGE TWO AND THREE ARE PUTTIN
THE POLICIES IN PLACE AN
IMPLEMENTING THEM.
>> THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU
>>> TONIGHT NEWS HOUR WEEKEN
DEBUTS THE PENSION PERIL
A PUBLIC TELEVISION INITIATIVE
THAT WILL SHINE A LIGHT ON THE
MORE THAN $1 TRILLION SHORTFAL
IN FUNDING FOR PUBLIC EMPLOYEES'
RETIREMENT BENEFITS ACROSS THE
COUNTRY.
WE'LL EXPLORE WHAT IT MEANS FO
RETIREES AND TAXPAYERS
EXAMINE HOW IT MIGHT THREATE
THE FISCAL STABILITY OF STATES
AND REPORT ON PROPOSED
SOLUTIONS.
WE GOIB A COMPARISON
A REPORT FROM THE NETHERLAND
WHICH PROVIDES PENSIONS FO
PUBLIC EMPLOYEES AND ALMOS
EVERYONE ELSE THERE.
THE DUTCH SYSTEM IS ALSO FACIN
CHALLENGES
NEWS HOUR CORRESPONDENT REPORT
ON THE PENSION PERIL
>> Reporter: IT'S EARLY MORNIN
IN THE SUBURB OUTSIDE AMSTERDA
AND JOSEPHINE IS GETTING READY
FOR WORK
SHE'S A POLICE OFFICER AND AFTER
DECADES OF WORK, SHE IS JUST A
FEW YEARS AWAY FROM HANGING UP
HER GUN AND RETIRING
>> Translator: I LOVE TAKING
WALKS AND BIKING SO I THINK I'LL
SPEND A LOT OF TIME DOING THINGS
THAT RIGHT NOW I CAN'T DO.
WALKING, BIKING, GOING T
MUSEUMS, READING BOOKS
I HAVE A WHOLE STACK OF BOOK
OVER THERE THAT I STILL WANT T
READ
>> Reporter: JOSEPHINE LIVES
WITH HER HUSBAND AND DAUGHTE
AND WHEN SHE DOES RETIRE, HE
WILL JOIN THOSE WITH THE PENSION
TO SUSTAIN THEM.
IT IS REGULARLY RANKED ONE O
THE GREATEST SYSTEMS IN TH
ENTIRE WORLD
THE AVERAGE DUTCH WORK WHERE
THEY RETIRE CAN EXPECT T
RECEIVE ABOUT 70% OF THEIR
INCOME PAID OUT TO THEM EVER
YEAR FOR THE REST OF THEIR
LIVES.
WHAT'S MORE, THE ENTIRE COUNTR
IS PRACTICALLY COVERED BY THEM
OVER 90% OF DUTCH WORKERS WILL
GET THESE PENSIONS
RETIREES IN THE NETHERLANDS NO
ONLY GET SOMETHING SIMILAR T
SOCIAL SECURITY BUT THEY GET A
PENSION THROUGH THEIR JOB.
AND THESE PENSIONS AREN'T JUST
FOR POLICE AND TEACHERS AN
OTHER PUBLIC WORKERS
BAKERS GET THEM.
HAIR DRESSERS, GROCERY CLERKS,
EVEN THE STAFFERS WHO SELL POT
IN THE NETHERLANDS' INFAMOUS
COFFEE SHOPS GET THEM.
EACH INDUSTRY SETS UP
NONPROFIT PENSION FUNNELED FOR
ITS OWN WORKERS.
AT THE BUTCHER'S SHOP IN THE
HEART OF AMSTERDAM, ROLE AN HA
BEEN WORKING FOR OVER 20 YEARS
WITH EVERY PAYCHECK, A BIT O
HIS SALARY IS AUTOMATICALL
TAKEN OUT AND PUT INTO A PENSION
FUND
EMPLOYEES PUT IN A LITTLE.
EMPLOYERS PUT IN A LITTLE MORE
AND THAT MONEY FROM TENS O
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE INVESTED
TOGETHER BUILDS UP THE FUNNELED.
>> Translator: IT IS ALL QUITE
WELL ORGANIZED
MY EMPLOYER PAYS A PART OF M
PENSION AND THEN WHEN I'M 65, OR
67, THEN THEY'LL PAY IT OUT TO
ME
YOU DO GET A NICE DOCUMENT
OVERVIEW IN THE MAIL AT YOUR
HOUSE BUT YEAH, I READ THROUGH
THAT QUICKLY MAYBE ONCE.
AND THEN I PUT IT ASIDE AGAIN.
REALLY, I DON'T LOOK INTO IT
THAT CLOSELY
>> Reporter: THIS IS HIS BOS
AND EMDEPENDING ON THEIR LINE OF
WORK, EMPLOYEES HAVE ROUGHLY 10%
OF THEIR PAY DID I HAVE ENTERE
INTO THEIR PENSION
HE ARGUES THAT THE GREAT FEATURE
OF THIS SYSTEM IS THAT THE
SAVINGS HAPPEN EFFORTLESSLY.
>> Translator: WELL, IT IS QUITE
SIMPLE
YOU GET 20 A WEEK IN YOUR HANDS,
YOU GO FOR AN EXTRA DRINK, A
CIGARETTE, SOMETHING EXTRA FOR
THE KIDS
A BOUQUET OF FLOWERS FOR YOU
WIFE
QUICKLY THAT 20 EUROS IS GONE.
BUT YOU PUT AWAY 20 EUROS EACH
WEEK, YOU DO THAT FOR 40
SOMETHING YEARS OF YOUR WORG
LIFE, IT BECOMES A SUBSTANTIAL
AMOUNT
>> WHAT MAKES IT SUCCESSFUL IS
THAT YOU BASICALLY FORCE PEOPL
TO SAVE FOR THEIR OLD AGE.
AND THAT I THINK IS THE SUCCES
FACTOR OF THE DUTCH PENSIO
SYSTEM
>> Reporter: THIS IS THE
DIRECTOR AT THE CENTRAL BANK O
NETHERLANDS WHICH HELP OVERSEE
THE COUNTRY'S SYSTEM
HE SAID THEIR APPROACH IS BACKED
UP BY RESEARCH IN BEHAVIORAL
ECONOMICS WHICH TRIES TO
UNDERSTAND HOW AND WHY PEOPL
MAKE FINANCIAL DECISIONS
>> WHAT ABOUT THE ARGUMENT SOM
AMERICANS MAKE WHICH IS, I
APPRECIATE THE PHILOSOPHICAL
UNDERPINNINGS OF THE PROGRAM
DON'T FORCE ME
LET ME HAVE MY MONEY AND FIGUR
OUT HOW I WANT TO DEAL WITH IT
>> I UNDERSTAND THAT VERY MUCH
BUT BEING A HUMAN BEING, I THINK
WE HAVE TO REALIZE THAT BECAUS
OUR HORIZON IS SO SHORT, YOU
SOMETIMES HAVE TO FORC
YOURSELF, BASICALLY ASK SOMEBODY
ELSE, I KNOW THAT I'M KIND O
SHORT-SIGHTED.
I AM MYOPIC.
PLEASE DO IT FOR ME.
IF YOU DO NOT FORCE ME, I KNOW
THAT I'M NOT GOING TO DO IT.
THAT'S BASICALLY HOW IT WORKS.
IT HAS TO DO WITH HUMA
BEHAVIOR
BECAUSE FOR SOMEBODY WHO IS 25
OR 30 OR EVEN 40, IT IS VERY
ABSTRACT
WHAT WILL HAPPEN WHEN YOU'RE 65.
>> 26-YEAR-OLD MELANIE MARTINS
IS THE KIND OF PERSON HE I
TALKING ABOUT.
SHE LIVES WITH HER PARENTS SOUTH
OF AMSTERDAM
THOUGH SHE HAS A GRADUAT
DEGREE, SHE IS WORKING AT "STA
WARS" BUCKS AND LOOKING FOR
BETTER JOB
>> I HOPE TO STOP WORKING AT 65.
MAYBE IF I SAVE UP SOME MONE
MYSELF ON TOP OF MY PENSION.
IT SHOULD BE POSSIBLE.
IT IS HARD TO THINK ABOU
SOMETHING THAT IS 40 YEARS
FUTURE
>> JOHN MARTINS, HER DAD, IS A
50-YEAR-OLD RAILWAY ENGINEER AND
HE IS WORRIED ABOUT MELANIE'
FUTURE
THAT SHE WON'T HAVE TH
COMFORTABLE RETIREMENT HE IS
EXPECTING.
BUT EVEN HIS RETIREMENT HA
ALREADY BEEN DELAYED
I COUNTED ON UNTIL I WAS 61.
THEN I WORKED FOR 40 YEARS FOR
THE DUTCH RAILWAY.
THE GOVERNMENT SAID I HAVE T
WORK UNTIL I'M 67 SO THAT'
STILL QUITE A WHILE.
>> THE RETIREMENT AGE IS GOING
UP BECAUSE IN THE NETHERLANDS,
MUCH LIKE THE U.S., THEI
POPULATION IS GETTING OLDER.
THERE ARE MORE RETIREES AN
THEY'RE LIVING LONGER.
FOR THE DUTCH, THAT MEAN MOR
PAYMENTS COMING OUT OF PENSION
FUNDS FOR LONGER AND ALSO LIKE
THE U.S., THERE ARE FEWER YOUN
WORKERS SO THERE ARE FEWER
PEOPLE PAYING INTO THE FUNDS
THIS IMBALANCE IS ONLY EXPECTE
TO ACCELERATE.
WHAT'S MORE, THE FUNDS
THEMSELVES, MANY OF WHICH AR
INVESTED TOOK A HUGE HIT DURIN
FINANCIAL CRISIS SO SOMETHIN
HAD TO GIVE.
IN THE SPRING OF 2013, THE DUTCH
PENSION FUNDS WERE FORCED TO
TAKE AN UNPRECEDENTED STEP
66 OF THE COUNTRY'S 415 FUND
ANNOUNCE THEY HAD WOULD MAKE
CUTS TO THE PAYMENTS THEY MADE
TO PENSIONERS.
SOME OF THE CUTS WERE MODEST A
HALF OF 1%
SOME WERE STEEPER AT UP TO 7%.
THOSE CUTS CAME ABOUT BECAUS
DUTCH LAW REQUIRES THAT PENSIO
FUNDS TO HAVE SOCK AWAY AT LEAST
105% OF ALL THEIR CURREN
LIABILITIES.
IF A FUND DROPS BELOW THAT
LEVEL, PENSION MANAGERS HAVE THE
AUTHORITY TO MAKE WORKERS PA
MORE OR GIVE OUT LESS TO
RETIREES
>> IT IS THIS CHECKIVE SHARING
OF RISK THAT IS ANOTHER HALLMARK
OF THE DUTCH SYSTEM.
UNLIKE PUBLIC PENSIONS IN TH
U.S.,ERS WOULD ARE GUARANTEED
SET PAYMENT.
WHETHER THERE ARE FUNDS IN THE
PLAN OR NOT.
OR INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT PLANS
LIKE IRAs OR 401(k)s WHERE EAC
INDIVIDUAL BEARS THE SOLE RICK
THE DUTCH HAVE SPREAD THOS
RISKS AND THE BENEFITS ACROS
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF WORKERS
THAT MAKES THEIR SYSTEM MUCH
MORE RESILIENT IN TOUGH TIMES.
>> MOST PEOPLE FIND PENSIONS
FAIRLY BORING.
LIKE MORTGAGES, THEY DON'T THINK
ABOUT FINANCIAL STUFF.
>> SHE IS THE ECONOMICS EDITOR
OF ONE OF THE BIGGEST NEWSPAPERS
IN THE COUNTRY
SHE SAYS YES, THE DUTCH SYSTEM
IS RESILIENT BUT SHE ARGUES,
DESPITE THE WISHFUL THINKING O
MANY, THESE DEMOGRAPHI
CHALLENGES ARE NOT GOING AWA
ANY TIME SOON.
>> IT IS A STRUCTURAL THING.
NOT ONLY THE CRISIS.
I THINK PART OF THE POPULATION
DOESN'T GET IT YET
THEY THINK WHY DO WE HAVE TO
LOWER THE PENSIONS NOW
BECAUSE IT IS ONLY TEMPORARY
YOU JUST HAVE TO SIT OUT THE
CRISIS AND THEN WE CAN GO BACK
TO THE OLD WAYS.
>> THE QUESTION BECOMES TO KEE
THE SYSTEM GOING, WHO EXACTL
HAS TO ADJUST?
JOHN MARTINS WORRIES IN THE END,
YOUNGER WORKERS LIKE HIS
DAUGHTER MELANIE WILL HAVE T
SHOULDER MORE OF THE BURDEN BY
PAYING MORE IN AND GETTING LES
OUT.
I GET THAT MONEY BECAUSE I
ALREADY BUILD UP FOR 30 YEARS.
SO IN THE END IT WILL BE OKA
FOR ME
BUT FOR MELANIE, IT WON'T BE
ENOUGH
>> HE UNDERSTANDS, HE MAY HAVE
TO MAKE ADJUSTMENTS TO HELP OU
HIS DAUGHTER'S GENERATION.
>> IF I HAVE TO PAY HIGHER
PENSION PREMIUMS OR RECEIVE
LOWER PENSION TO MAKE SURE M
DAUGHTER WILL HAVE A PENSION
THAT'S WHAT HAS TO HAPPEN.
>> POLICE OFFICER JOSEPHINE JUST
A FEW YEARS FROM RETIREMEN
BELONGS TO ONE OF THE PENSIO
FUNDS THAT ALREADY DID MAKE
SMALL CUT TO RETIREES.
>> IT COULD BE IF THE CRISIS
CONTINUES IT WILL HAVE TO BE
LOWERED AGAIN.
THAT'S POSSIBLE.
I HOPE NOT
IT IS LESS THAN I EXPECTED BUT
IT ENOUGH.
I THINK I CAN BE HAPPY WITH TH
PENSION I'LL RECEIVE
>> DESPITE HIS RECENT TROUBLES
IT IS WORTH REMEMBERING TH
DUTCH PENSION SYSTEM IS NEARLY
100% FUNDED.
COVERS A HUGE MAJORITY OF TH
COUNTRY AND REMAINS A MODEL FO
THE REST OF THE YEAR
JOSEPHINE USED A COMMON DUTC
EXPRESSION TO REFLECT HE
REALISM ABOUT THE FUTURE
>> Translator: I DON'T THINK THE
TREE CAN KEEP GROWING INTO THE
HEAVENS.
>> HOW DOES A DUTCH RETIREMENT
SYSTEM COMPARE WITH WHAT WE HAVE
IN THE UNITED STATES
EARLIER I SAT DOWN WITH JUSTIN
FOX, THE EXECUTIVE EDITOR OF THE
HARVARD BUSINESS REVIEW.
I STARTED BY ASKING HIM ABOU
THE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE TW
COUNTRIES.
>> THE U.S. SYSTEM STARTED AFTER
WORLD WAR II A BIT LIKE TH
DUTCH SYSTEM
CORPORATIONS PROVIDING PENSION
FOR PEOPLE
AND THAT KIND OF FELL APAR
DURING THE 1970s
CORPORATIONS WITH PENSIONS OUT
THERE AND THERE ARE LOTS O
STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS THAT
GIVE THEM.
SO WHAT WE SWITCHED TO IN TH
U.S. IS THE DUTCH PUT THIS
EMPHASIS ON KEEPING IT
COLLECTIVE
HAVING EVERYBODY IN AN INDUSTRY,
IN A PENSION TOGETHER.
OR SOME LARGE CORPORATIONS HAV
THEIR PENSIONS
IN THE U.S. WE MOVED TO THIS
TOTALLY ATOMIZED 401(k) SYSTEM
WHERE MOST PEOPLE ARE BASICALL
RESPONSIBLE ON THEIR OWN FOR
SAVING FOR RETIREMENT.
>> WHAT CAN WE TAKE AWAY FRO
THAT SYSTEM THAT WE COUL
POSSIBLY INSTITUTE HERE?
>> WELL, ONE THING THAT IS
ALREADY HAPPENING IS SORT OF
AUTOMATICALLY SETTING PEOPLE U
SO THEY SAVE IN A 401(k)
I THINK MORE AND MORE EMPLOYERS,
MY EMPLOYER, HARVARD UNIVERSITY,
JUST ANNOUNCED THIS.
THAT BASICALLY UNLESS YOU TELL
THEM NOT TO, THEY'RE GOING T
AUTOMATICALLY START TAKING,
THINK IT IS INITIALLY 3% OF YOUR
SALARY AND PUTTING IT ASIDE AN
INCREASING IT EVERY YEAR BY ON
MORE PERCENTAGE POINT UNTIL YO
REACH THE STATUTORY LIMIT.
THAT'S ALREADY HAPPENING OUT
THERE.
THE OTHER THING IS ON A PAYOUT
END WHERE HERE YOU RETIRE.
YOU GET SOCIAL SECURITY BU
YOU'RE LIKELY TO JUST, IF YO
DID A GOOD JOB AND SAVED, IT I
MUCH MORE EFFICIENT TO HAV
GUARANTEED INCOME THEY THEY DI
RATHER THAN A BIG PILE OF MONEY.
IF I DON'T KNOW IF I'M GOING T
BE LIVING TO 100 OR 75, I NEED
TO SAVE A TON OF MONEY TO MAKE
IT TO 100.
IF YOU'VE GOT THOUSANDS OF
PEOPLE ALL IN THE SAME SYSTE
AND IT IS JUST GUARANTEEING
PAYOUT UNTIL THEY KEEL OVER,
THAT'S A LOT CHEAPER
AND IT'S BEEN A LOT OF PRESSUR
IN THE UNITED STATES TO, IT IS
CALLED ANNUITIZE THEIR 401(k
BUT SO FAR NOT MANY PEOPLE ARE
DOING IT
>> I THINK HE BROUGHT THIS UP IN
THE PIECE.
WHAT IS IT THAT MAKES THIS S
UNAMERICAN TO BE TOLD FORCIBLY
TO SAVE VERSUS HAVING THE OPTION
TO SAVE?
IS IT A CULTURAL THING
IS IT A PSYCHOLOGICAL THING?
A BEHAVIORAL ECONOMIC THING?
>> I THINK WE HAVE THE FORCE
SAVING IN THE U.S.
THE BULK OF THE WORK FORCE WAS
DOING CORPORATE WORK FORCE
I DON'T THINK THERE IS ANY
PEOPLE DIDN'T PROTEST.
MARCH THROUGH THE STREETS ABOU
IT
WHEN THAT SYSTEM STARTED RUNNING
INTO TROUBLE, IT HAD ITS
LIMITATIONS.
YOU COULDN'T MOVE COMPANIES.
AND ANOTHER WAS, IF YOUR COMPANY
WENT BELLY UP, THERE WAS
TROUBLE.
NOW WE'RE SEEING THAT WITH
STATES AND MUNICIPALITIE
RUNNING INTO TROUBLE WITH THEI
PENSIONS
YOUR WORK FORCE ISN'T GROWIN
AND IT IS GROWING VERY FAST.
THAT PUTS PRESSURE ON TH
SYSTEM
AND ALL THE PEOPLE IN YOUR
REPORT, THEIR CONCERNS ARE REA
BUT STILL WE'RE TALKING ABOU
SLIGHT DECREASED IN HOW MUCH
THEY'RE TALKING ABOUT HOW MUCH
THEY'LL GET IN THE FUTURE.
THE U.S. IS IN BETTER SHAPE WITH
THAT
BECAUSE WE'RE A YOUNGER COUNTRY.
WE HAVE MORE IMMIGRATION
WE HAVE A FASTER GROWING WOR
FORCE.
>> ALL RIGHT
THANKS SO MUCH FOR YOUR TIME
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> MY CONVERSATION WITH JUSTIN
FOX CONTINUES ONLINE
WE SPOKE AT GREATER LENGTH ABOUT
THE CRISIS I OF PUBLIC PENSION
FUNDS IN THE UNITED STATES AND
AROUND THE WORLD
VISIT NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG
IN FUTURE SEGMENTS, WE'LL BE
LOOKING AT CITIES ACROSS THE
UNITED STATES AND OTHER NATION
ARE ADDRESSING THE CHALLENGES OF
PROVIDING PENSIONS
THIS IS PBS NEWS HOUR SUNDAY
>>> ON VETERANS DAY, MOS
AMERICANS THINK OF THE MEN AND
WOMEN IN UNIFORM
BUT MILITARY LIFE ALSO HAS A
HUGE EFFECT ON THEIR CHILDREN.
THE PBS NEWS HOUR STUDEN
REPORTING LABS NETWORK REACHED
OUT TO STUDENTS LIVING I
BAHRAIN.
TO FIND OUT HOW THEIR PARENTS'
MILITARY CAREERS HAVE AFFECTED
THEIR LIVES.
>> BEING A MILITARY KID HA
REALLY GIVEN ME A BUNCH OF
OPPORTUNITIES THAT I WONDERFUL
HAVE BEEN ABLE TO HAVE IF I WA
NOT A MILITARY KID
>> WE GET TO GO TO NEW PLACE
AND DIFFERENT PLACES THAT SOME
PEOPLE MIGHT NOT HAVE HEARD OF
>> AND THEN TO ITALY AND I DON'T
THINK I'VE EVER DREAMED OF GOING
THERE BUT IT WAS REALLY COOL
>> I GET TO TRAVEL AROUND TH
WORLD AND I LEARN A BUNCH OF NEW
LANGUAGES LIKE I SPEAK GERMAN,
FRENCH, ITALIAN.
AND NOW I'M LEARNING ARABI
SINCE I JUST MOVED HERE.
>> YOU HEAR YOU'RE MOVING TO THE
MIDDLE EAST.
YOU PANIC A LITTLE BIT BECAUSE
YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT IS GOING T
HAPPEN BUT YOU ACTUALLY LEAR
THAT WHAT MAYBE YOU THOUGHT LIKE
WAS STEREO TYPE CAL ABOUT
CERTAIN REGION, YOU BECOME MOR
OPEN MINDED.
>> SINCE MY DAD IS IN TH
MILITARY, I'LL TELL YOU ONE BA
THING.
I HAVE TO LEAVE ALL MY FRIENDS
I HAVE TO BASICALLY START A NE
LIFE IN A DIFFERENT COUNTRY.
WHEN I DO, IT IS REALLY HARD
>> MY MOM GOES AWAY ON A SHI
FOR AT LEAST ABOUT TWO OR THRE
YEARS.
>> EVERYONE IS GOING THROUGH THE
SAME THING
WE'RE ALL MILITARY KIDS BU
WE'RE ALL FROM DIFFERENT PLACES.
HOW MANY 17-YEAR-OLDS CAN SA
THEY'VE BEEN TO PARIS AN
THEY'VE BEEN TO PRAGUE AND THA
THEY'VE BEEN TO ITALY?
>> I LIKE BEING A MILITARY KID
BECAUSE I LOVE TRAVELING
SO MY QUESTION FOR MY DAD IS
ALWAYS, WHERE ARE WE GOING NEXT?
JOIN US ON THE NEWS HOUR
TOMORROW ON AIR AND ONLINE
WE LOOK AT A PROGRAM AIMED A
EDUCATING VETERANS AND ENSURIN
THEY GET ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE
PLUS FLYING THOSE WHO SERVE IN
THE WORLD WAR II TO WASHINGTON
TO VISIT THE MEMORIAL.
THAT'S IT.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.
THANK YOU.